Well,
when we were choosing between the College Board
and the American College Testing Code, Dean
Hubert told me, he said, now, Austin, you've got to
structure this thing where these people that you
have examine these tests, that they feel that
they're not wasting their time. And I said, yes,
sir, we'll do that. So if We chose the College
Board, and I use the word we because it was chosen by
the deans and the heads of departments all over the
campus. The Counseling Center didn't choose the
College Board, although we felt that that was the
one that was better suited for our needs. Well,
this was a fine program that Dr. Wayne Hall had. You
see, he had a pragmatic, a practical measurement
of what we were doing and how much economics. Oh,
Chalk, you know Chalk, yeah? Chalk would be in my,
he'd be in our center the morning the test would be.
And he would have his list of his men in
order. And he said, this is the greatest thing that
ever happened to me. He said, I've always
wondered, how good a job are we doing? And, oh, that
economics department was very high. Biology was
very high. But a lot of, only,
Well, we had a little trouble with agriculture.
But Dr. Wayne Hall, being in agriculture, he asked
these young men, he said, are you scientists? And
they said, well, yes. He said, all right. These are
science tests. He said, what kind of a scientist
are you? Are you a biologist? Are you, you know,
this or that? And pretty soon the students saw that
what he was telling them was that you may be a plant
physiologist,
but you take the course, you take the test that will
measure plant physiology. But they won't call it
plant physiology. There are not that many taking
it. But if you look at the questions, you'll find it
there. Well, it was a shame, but now, we even had
Berkeley. Berkeley sent a professor, full
professor, who spent three days with us studying
what we had done with these
measures. And he said, how in the world did you get
your profs to do it? Well, now Haskell, that goes
back to our heritage. Now, did you find good
continuity during these years between the
different vice presidents for academics? Was
there good continuity of interest by each of them
in, whether we called it the Counseling and
Testing Service, the Academic Counseling
Center, was there good continuity in there? I
think that it was to the extent that the person who
was in the office at that time understood the
contributions that a guidance center can make.
You know, some people think a guidance center is
somewhat for children. And they don't see the
implications. You did, I remember. Wayne Hall
did. Now, Dr. Calhoun, once he was able to get
acquainted with what our situation was, Dr.
Calhoun was a strong supporter of the, oh, I think
old Mac Prescott got in real trouble because he
kept bad mouthing the summer conferences. And I
understand Dr. Calhoun read and write that to him
and said he didn't want to hear any more of it. Well,
Dr. Calhoun told me, he said, Austin, you ought to
feel pretty good when you can have a program where
people pay to come see it and hear it. And it doesn't
cost us anything. We just get to do it. I think Dr.
Calhoun was very much interested. Now, when this
got into what to me was a difficult position, Dr.
Colgus was pushing harder and harder for a
counseling center. But that word meant
different, had a different meaning to him. Yes.
And he was not an academic man. The real problem for
him was that the academic people, the counseling
was in The academic effort of the university, I
think, is where it belongs. That was my personal
feeling. I think that it's like in our high school.
We should never have thrust the drug problem on
high school counselors. They're not trained
sufficient for that. it ruins their relationship
to make contribution in the afternoon. I know you
understood that years ago because we talked about
it on some of our problems. I think Dr. Byers simply
did not have a background and now this But now this
changed some, because I think he had a
granddaughter that had some real problems in
school, and the counselor was able to help the
person, so he began to see a little bit there.
Now, when I was moved under
Now that occurred about when? That occurred all
along about 75. So that's about the time, that's
either Calhoun's last years? That was his last
year. Now Dr. Calhoun told me, as I remember, that
he said, Austin, I'm going to put you over under Ed
Cooper, as long as Ed Cooper is dean of the records.
I think he meant Coles. You helped by telling
Coles. No one has ever told you you couldn't have a
counseling center. Of course, now, Coles told me,
he said, I don't want your staff, I just want your
money. I thought, well, he's honest. I came of the
background where the guidance is a part of the
educational system. It is not a part of the student
life system. That is my background.
Let's do a long view now. Based on your experience,
What were the important decisions in the area
where you were involved or related to it that you
think were key positive decisions? And if there
were any important negative ones, what were the
key negative decisions that were made? Well, I
think that we were fortunate in having a
background of Well, the basic division. The basic
division could be looked upon as somewhat of a
guidance. That added to the record of the academic
people working with the student. The fact that we
worked closely with the
cohort was necessary. I think the ROTC movement
would tell you now that it worked out for the best of
the university and the student. Instead of trying
to stubbornly shove the core onto the university,
let it find its place.
I feel like that we were able to acquaint
professors with
what the services can be provided a professor that
will make his work more effective. Sometimes
that's helping in research of student
characteristics. Sometimes it's like in the,
well, the summer conferences. The fellow who had
charge of freshman English, the
setting up the sections.
Haskell, in the last year, after I retired, I went
back one summer and helped them with these.
conferences by taking groups of students. I found
out was this young man said to me, he said, I need
some help. He said, I put my program through twice
for my request for courses and all I'm able to
register in is English and physical education.
And he said, what am I going to do? He said, I got to
call my father in Chicago and tell him that I'm
going to go to school, but I only can take two
courses. Well, Haskell, that was unnecessary. We
developed just a number of controls of these
students. And I remember one of
my first occurrences of this type. They
had the associate dean's meeting on Saturday
morning after the last and apparently there was a
big mess up on no sections and all of this and Dr.
Calhoun had called these people together And Dr.
Calhoun said,
what in the world caused this? And Lannis Holt
said, I don't know, but I can tell you this, that if
you had called Austin Curry, he could have told you
within at least 30 or 40 of how many students would
be needing that course. And Dr. Calhoun said,
well, when could he have done this? He said he's
kept it all summer. Well, that was a flaw of Haskell
that I don't know, I'm sure Lannis remembered, but
that was not necessary. So that's an example of a
service that is available and could have been
used, but the person didn't know it. Now this
fellow that handled the English sections, he
heard about what we were doing. So he comes over to
the counseling center and we start giving him the
fingers. And he said, he said, I'll tell you what,
it beats having a yelling match with being beaten.
But I don't know how this, whether this is
answering what we're saying or not. The
University Counseling Center should be one that
it's a service. And it should be structured in a way
that it can help people help themselves. It's not a
crutch. It is not judgmental. It, it should do good
research. I was kind of amused out here after they,
I knew that when they merged, I was a little
surprised that shuttle mechanics merged those
two. Because they had too much not in common.
Gradually, within about two years, I think it
was, all of the counseling staff had resigned or
moved somewhere
else. There is no reason. Well, the interesting
thing is that at the University of Texas, while we
were merging, they were separated.
If you were hired as a consultant today to give
advice about the area that you knew best, what
would be your advice to the university today?
From my field, which really where my real interest
lies is in career counseling. They still have the
same thing they had when I came in 1952. They have
the problem of the undecided student.
attempted to help it by making group guidance
courses where a student would take a course and
then we would carry them through a frequency. Now,
Haskell, we were not great shots at this, but we did
not have many who had not made a decision by the
second semester. Now they have people still
struggling around in the late sophomore year, as I
understand it. And I think one of the complicating
factors now also is that some of the colleges are
now setting up a numerical limit on how many they
will allow to come into their program. Yes. So here
are some students then kind of in no man's land or no
woman's land. And where do they go and what do they
do? Your advice, as I'm understanding it, would be
that there be, and I'll give it a generic title, a
counseling center having to do with academics and
with professional goals in life. Yes. where that
there might be somewhere else a counseling center
that helped young people work on their personal
problems. But these are two different units.
Where would be the best place for the academic
counseling center, as we're now organized, where
would it be located? Who should that Well, I think
it should be in the academic structure. Because to
me,
the preparation of a person for a profession is
academic. It is not student life. If a person is
having a drug problem, then they should treat that
by the people who are qualified in the medical
profession and come back to the... You see, what
we're trying to do is somewhat like it is in the
public schools. We're trying to solve every
problem a person has. without any relationship to
are we suited for it? Do we have the facilities? Do
we have the staff? It's the same with, we need to
work out some kind of a program where the person can
be aware
that If they are not doing well in a program, then
people in my field would help them find out why. Is
it because you don't understand? Is it because
you've taken the wrong courses? These are not
things that are related to sex, and I'm not poking
fun here, but we need to get help to students in the
area in which competency can be seen on both sides.
Now, Texas University, they're pretty screwed.
They have encouraged many freshmen to go to a
two-year college. First one thing, there are
several options there.
I'm afraid that we take students, and I don't mean
this critically, but we take students And we don't
have a program for them. And they don't know what
the program is. So that is the dilemma. There are
more, as I understand it, that is Hope's daughter
hedging it up. I understand that General Studies,
I think they call it. It shouldn't be much
different than General Curriculum.
They are in there. Old sophomore? And that's no
good. I mean,
I don't know. I don't want to sound like I know all
the answers, but we are, we may be confusing things
to the student about what we do in this area. I doubt
if there's any particular help on the campus to
what I'm saying.
Again, looking at the broad view, why has A&M made
the progress it has made? A&M's a much different
school now than what it was when you first arrived
back here. What were the reasons, why did A&M make
the progress it made? Well, I think that, now, A&M
has always, to me, has been honest about what it was
doing. You see, when I came back in 52, we had Math
100, English 100, Chemistry 100. That was because
there were people who needed it. Now, in about two
or three years, that began to fade out because the
public schools got back into control, the
families reorganized,
and young people were coming who were better
qualified. Now, we did not give in on standards.
You
know, you were here in then, lots of universities
bent, and I used to have a difficulty at the college
board meeting because I took a firm stand on that,
that you will never put out a medical doctor by
letting them study medicine just because they
really wanted to or what have you. Well, we've got
to be honest with them. We've got to say, you know,
John, you have some good qualities here. There's
this fellow. I did some work for the dental college
in Houston in this respect. And they sent this
young man up to us. He was an A&M undergraduate by
his degree, and he was studying dentistry. It was
the second year. It's very serious. when the
staff, the teaching staff for the dental school
has to drop a student. It's a kind of a, well, it
upsets everyone. There's a lot of money put into
that. Well, this young man, he came out to see us.
And so he said, I know why I'm here. and I appreciate
any help you can do. So we gave him a routine
screening and
we suggested to him that he take another look at his
background and that he work with children.
That could be in elementary schools, It could be in
a different kind. But that would be an area where he
would probably be very happy. And I looked this
man's name up the other day in the Aggie
dictionary, I call it. And this fella is now in
charge of the Head Start program in the state of
Colorado. He's been up there for whatever, a
decade. But that's what I mean. What a university
owes to me owes a service to a student that if
they're not meeting the terms of the goal that they
have, the profession, we should not just kick them
out. But we ought to identify them, work with them,
and help them leave the city. As we're getting near
the end now,
what I'm really asking are parts of the university
that are dearest to your heart, and let me ask it in
this manner. Let's make believe someone handed
you a million-dollar check and said, you can give
this check, you must give this money to Texas A&M,
but you've got to decide what it would be spent for.
If you were going to be generous to A&M, for what
purpose would you want your generosity used?
Well, I feel like, and of course I revert to my
biases, I feel like that We do have a strong
counseling center on the campus, but it is not
strong in the area of career planning. I don't mean
that critically, but it just isn't. I would
visualize that there would be, well, President
Rutter's admonition, there would be a center for
career planning. There would be, that would be
open. It would be open to students. I used to do
this. I used to, I'd have people from Amarillo
write me and want to bring their son or daughter to
the A&M campus for counseling, vocational
counseling. I said, no, that's a long trip. Go to
your high school counselor. Tell her that I said
that I was well aware of how her workload is. But
would she be willing to administer the test to the
student back at Amarillo And we would share the
findings with her. And oh, I never had one turned
down. They all, you know, that
got out. One of the problems we had in this program
was that at first, we were having a lot of students
not show up. And I couldn't believe that. But when
we looked into it, we found that this is what
happened. These people in Dallas, wherever, they
talk together. These people that keep up. And so
they said, let's send Johnny down. Let's let him
apply to A&M. And then he goes through this
guidance program. And they don't have anything
like that at SMU or at this. And so that's when we had
to sort of start tying it up more. But I feel like
that first, the cost of an education is tragic, but
it's getting to where it's unreasonable.
Secondly, there
simply is not Well,
the student, I don't know, the student just, the
age problem,
I think one of the problems is that youngsters do
not have the advantages of experiences. that
youngsters had of the same age several years ago.
So we need to work closely, A&M will work closely
with the academic counselors in the high school. I
think they will come to this. And the third thing
would be that they would help the student if they
were here and it didn't look good. Now, the fourth
thing I think is that the university needs to have a
continuing relationship in this field. We could
make some fine contributions to the whole field of
knowledge of college choice. career choice, this
sort of thing. If we could work on past the, well,
I've worked with graduate students, master's
degree candidates.